An introduction to the book of Joshua.
The book of Joshua is named after its writer,
Joshua the son of Nun,
who succeeded Moses as leader of Israel.
The book likely covers a period
of more than 20 years,
starting in 1473 B.C.E.
and ending in about 1450 B.C.E.
when the book was completed.
The book of Joshua
can be divided into four sections:
Israel’s entry into Canaan,
the conquest of the land,
the apportioning of it
to the individual tribes,
and Joshua’s final exhortations.
The book provides valuable lessons
on the need for courage, faith, and obedience
—especially when God’s people
face strong enemies.
In chapters 1 and 2,
Jehovah tells Joshua
to be courageous and strong,
the Israelites prepare
to cross the Jordan River,
and Joshua sends out
two spies who go to Jericho.
The spies go to the home
of Rahab, a prostitute.
Moved by faith in Jehovah,
she hides the spies,
thereby disobeying the order of the king.
In chapters 3 to 6,
Israel miraculously crosses
the Jordan River on dry ground,
even though the river is at flood stage.
The Israelites observe the Passover
and begin to eat the produce of the land.
Joshua then meets a man with a drawn sword.
The man is “the prince of Jehovah’s army.”
Through him, Jehovah tells Joshua
how to conquer Jericho.
Chapters 6 to 12
describe the conquest of the Promised Land.
In chapter 6, Jericho falls.
Only Rahab
and her father’s household are spared.
In chapter 7, Achan is exposed
for disobediently taking spoil from Jericho.
He is put to death along with his family,
who no doubt helped to conceal his sin.
Did you know?
Rahab and Achan provide contrasting lessons
in faith and obedience.
Though a Canaanite, Rahab was saved
because she obeyed the spies
and showed courageous faith in Jehovah.
Although Achan
was a member of God’s dedicated nation
and witnessed Jehovah
bringing down the walls of Jericho,
he was put to death
because of his disobedience,
lack of faith, and greed.
In chapter 8, Ai is conquered
and reduced to “a permanent mound of ruins.”
Joshua then reads God’s Law to the people.
Half of the nation stands
in front of Mount Gerizim
and the other half in front of Mount Ebal.
In chapter 9, the Gibeonites trick Joshua
into making a covenant with them
and he spares their lives.
Chapters 10 to 12 contain a record
of some of Israel’s God-given victories.
God even hurls
great hailstones at the Amorites
and makes the sun stand still so that Israel
can “take vengeance on its enemies.”
In chapters 13 to 22,
the Promised Land
is apportioned among the tribes of Israel,
the tabernacle is set up at Shiloh,
and the Israelites
select six cities of refuge
for the unintentional manslayer.
In chapter 22, the tribes of Reuben and Gad
and the half tribe of Manasseh
go to their inheritance east of the Jordan.
Chapters 23 and 24
contain Joshua’s farewell speeches.
He tells the people to “fear Jehovah
and serve him
with integrity and faithfulness.”
Joshua as well as Aaron’s son
Eleazar then die.
Also, the Israelites fulfill their sworn oath
to bury the bones of Jacob’s son Joseph
in the Promised Land.
As you read the book of Joshua,
note how Jehovah
blesses faithful and obedient ones;
see how he fights for his people;
and observe how he fulfills all his promises,
thus strengthening our faith
in our future inheritance
under his glorious Kingdom.